<article><h2>Private: Private: Hippo cms</h2><time><span class="day">11</span><span class="month">7</span><span class="year">2007</span></time><h4>Three way shootout in the cms corral - part 1</h4>First up in the three way shootout of cms vendors was Hippo. A dutch (Amsterdam) based vendor, who is active and profitable since 1999 in the open source community.But without further ado, my first impression...<!--more-->Hippo cms is open source, something which has it's advantages, some of which are that they have over 1000 developers contributing to the community. Furthermore they are very involved with the <a href="http://www.apache.org/">apache</a> project, hence the promotion of <em>hippo</em> cocoon as a front end layer. Something they did not push, as they gave enough room for other options, from jsf, flash, echo2 to .NET.The advantages that they gave where (among others):<ol class="advantages">	<li>Try it for free, the software is 100% free.</li>	<li>Transparent marketing</li>	<li>Support is our core business</li>	<li>Road map is open, even for discussion</li>	<li>Releases are constant and iterative</li></ol>These advantages they compared to 'other' (closed source) systems as:<ol class="disadvantages">	<li>Sales driven</li>	<li>Supports goal is to ignore bugs</li>	<li>Unclear road map</li>	<li>Hit and run tactics</li></ol><em>They had better points, but I forgot to write them down, I will update with the complete list once I get it.</em>Being open source, they had surely thought about commitment. They have over 1000 developers contributing code , they organize conferences (apachecon) to maintain contact with the community, they support and contribute to open standards. Doing this they have over 150 downloads a month, to be honest, not an impressive number in my humble opinion.In the morning session, they focused on the end user, the authors and editors. To do this, they showed an impressive texteditor, xopus, that cleaned up word documents and stuff. Sadly, during a coffee break they admitted that it wasn't free or open source and did not work in firefox.Overall the application looked nice (using <a href="http://www.famfamfam.com/">fam fam fam icons</a>), flexible and easily configurable.The main disadvantage that I see in comparison with the other two, is that they do not offer a complete solution. You have to build your own way to get the cms content on the web. This is where the other two will offer (I think) a more complete solution.On the other hand, I think that this will be their main advantage. You can use the community to easily build a front end in exactly such a way that you want.First impression?<h5>Very good</h5>The presentation was pleasant, although I long for friday, three days of presentations from 9.30 through 16.30 is heavy, that I know after the first day.</article>